What is this project:

This released to the public project is one part of a 3 piece software package that has often been referred to as BSHW. This is the frontend part of the entire package, it's the asset management side of a package which ultimately performs automated data erasure and equipment testing on various IT equipment. What are the other two pieces of this package? The first is an embedded Linux image which is PXE or Usb bootable via both legacy and UEFI, this approximately 25mb XZ compressed image loads near instantly and is able to duplicate the functionality of Blancco without all the bloat. The second is a distributed API which is spread out on a per bench basis which handles the PXE boot side of this and also handles communications directly from client devices running the embedded Linux image. Both the API's and the frontend would communicate directly with an infrastructure based database replication set.

All of these three packages ran as one prototype at A Tech Recyclers who handled a large majority of equipment from CompNow / SustainIT. I am releasing this project because the prototype which ran at A Tech Recyclers is effectively dead. I worked on this software as a hobby at home after long days at work managing a small crew of erasure specialists. At no point in time have I ever been commercially paid for any of my software or any of the hard work I put into it. The deal to sell A Tech Recyclers to CompNow effectively destroyed any chance to earn any money from my hard work, that's why I give it away for free to anyone who wants it.

How did my software even come to be:

Ever since 1998 and my first job of working in the IT recycling industry, I have been obsessed with this type of work, it's heavily ingrained in me, and regardless of all the other types of industries I have worked in, this one just kept calling. But, a big problem with this industry has always been that these jobs are treated like the IT version of McDonalds, a mostly casual workforce of poorly treated workers who are relied on to erase data and make accurate reports that effect financial outcomes. So, I upskilled to continue working in an industry which has constantly attempted to push me out. I kept coming back after being outside the industry many many times.

At first, I didn't even want to add data erasure to my software, it was just going to be testing software to quickly grab system specifications, but I also realised that if I just offered testing only, I was going to end up with nefarious businesses using the software to evade performing erasure on the equipment. So, I added erasure, it was nothing special, it was just dc3dd performing a zero of the drives, it was never a serious effort to compete with bigger companies like Blancco. The thing is, having worked in this industry for most of my life, I know for a fact that this industry will do anything it can to do the wrong thing. I have seen it with my own eyes over and over and the number of times I have seen data being breached just to make a tiny bit of extra cash is just insane.

I added data erasure into my software to enable the scumbags of this industry to drop their erasure expenses down to $0 so that they would have an incentive to actually do what they were being paid to do. I'm the hero of this story because of this, no matter what people say about me, I made this software to have a job and to stop the horrible people who wear fancy suits from leaking their customers data. And in order to reach that outcome, I had to be forever comfortable with earning nothing for my hard work.

Why not just use Blancco, it's so cheap:

I managed a team who ran both my software and Blancco imported into my software asset management, we cut back everywhere we could and the best a single worker could erase through Blancco was 220 per 8 hour day. Via my software, this number could exceed 300. Based on numbers alone, my software could rapidly alter the financial aspects of this type of work. Here's the problem with Blancco, it takes too long to load, my software can boot up and load in seconds, you are waiting minutes for Blancco. The amount of time that workers are wasting on Blancco is staggering. What it's consuming is worker time because that's the bottleneck. Your bottleneck is not going to be bench space or electricity, the bottleneck is going to be workers consuming too much time booting and preping Blancco. As someone who can process 220 devices via Blancco per day, I fundamentally understand the timing and the execution better then anyone.

Blancco is a bloated GUI which hides the fact that the majority of data erasure processes are firmware based, which means you are paying Blancco to tell the hard drive to wipe itself. The fact that I was able to duplicate most of these functions, is exactly the problem, why do people think this erasure stuff is so difficult? In the old days, hard drives were being zero'ed, multiple passes, verification. A lot of that doesn't even exist in modern hardware. The majority of erasures occurring today are just crypto key destruction. Encryption has practically made data erasure a couple of seconds of command sent to nvme and response verified. We aren't even doing 100% verification anymore, NIST clear only requires 10% to be checked, and 10% is just as good as 0%. The difference between 10% verification and no verification is very little.

Let me explain how easy it is to perform clear / purge level erasure, I will give it to you in easy to understand terms: suspend to ram. Yes, the Linux kernel is designed from the ground up to do a test suspend to ram at boot, what this does is unfreezes device firmware allowing you to send commands to drives instructing it to erase data. The next is hdparm, which you can use to send commands to ATA devices, this will do sanitize commands which are used on SATA SSD devices, and security commands which are used on SATA rotational devices to instruct it to erase data. Then you can use nvme-cli to also instruct nvme devices to erase themselves. Bang, I just did it, I just told you how to duplicate Blancco. Free information.

What killed off the prototype:

I just took the tools which already exist, I place API calls within the actual programs and compile them. I then just script all of together. The only difference between my software and Blancco, is that my software is free, is super fast and isn't a tax on the industry. Blancco is a destructive force in this world, and they clearly manipulate their customer base. They are happy to throw free licenses at any problem, they manipulate their customers. After CompNow bought out A Tech Recyclers, their deal with the former owner promised to give them all of the source code from my package and that they could make changes to my software and end up holding the copyright to the software just by virtue of changing it. This I never agreed to and was forced into signing a license agreement by extortion. I refused point-blank, I said this deal was not workable and that renegotiations would need to occur. Instead, they dropped my software and 30,000+ Blancco licenses magically appeared in the account out of some exclusivity deal.

At that point in time, my software became just an asset management software which imported Blancco into it, I simply wasn't happy with that. I was paid $0 for all of my hard work, so I disabled the Blancco importation feature, if Blancco wants to act anti-competitively in this market, then my software is not going to engage with it.

Conclusion:

I've worked really hard for all of this, and not found any $ for my time and effort, the industry is in fact full of scumbags. I would name and shame them here but they would probably just take me back to court again for telling the world the truth. I hope you enjoy my code and that you'll give me credit for at least writing this, because I'm not University educated, I'm just a guy with high functioning autism, who occasionally writes code.
